Q: What skills are required?
 
<br>A:  Computer programming is required.  For 2012, the most  useful languages
to know are Java and Groovy, since most demo ABMs will be written using those.  
Using eclipse will be required, so  experience with Eclipse (and various addons like XML editors
and tools, EMF and GEF SDKs) is useful. Knowledge of Netlogo might be useful.
Experience with R, VisAD, Weka, Matlab, iReport, GridGain or Terracotta would be a plus.
Experience with JOGL and Java3D might be useful. In addition, an ability and commitment to writing documentation is required, including "introductory" documentation for the demo models  implemented.
The ABMs will be of little use as "demos" if new users cannot easily figure out what
they are and how to use them.

Q: Is a background in complex adaptive systems (CAS) research, and/or in
agent-based / individual-based computational modeling
required for this project?

<br>A. Knowledge of complex systems is not required, but for some
parts of the project that kind of experience would be helpful:

<ul>
<li>For writing demonstration models for RepastS, knowledge of CAS is not required but it would be useful. Certainly an interest in learning about CAS research would be important.</li>
<li>For working on Repast S itself, again knowledge of CAS is not necessary but it can be useful, so that the student has a feel for how Repast S is used, and thus what are features of interest to the RepastS intended user base.</li>
</ul>
----

==Application Guidelines== 

*A proto-Template*

We do not have a particular template. We would like to see at least:
  * Your contact information. (email, etc)
  * List of relevant skills you have: what languages or toolsets do you know, to what extent (passing,medium,expert).
  * List of past projects, jobs, experience relevant to this project.
  * Some description of you and your interests: why are you interested in our project Ideas? How do those relate to your own (short/medium/long-term) interests and career plans.
  * Why do you think you are a good fit for our organization in general, and for our project Ideas in particular?
  * What you would like to achieve and gain as a result of participating in our projects
  * Proposals you have that either flesh out our Ideas, or are related to them or our core mission (complex systems research). You don not need to give us a "final" list of models you plan to implement over the summer. We imagine that after we select students we will figure out, based on student interests, who will implement which ones. But if you can include some examples of ones you would be most interested in doing, that will be useful for us.

Note that we *strongly prefer+ students who will work on the project *"above and beyound"* the minimal agreed amount of effort, because they really are interested in the projects and in taking advantage of this as an opportunity to learn new skills, etc. We also are looking for students who are *likely to participate after the summer internship* is over. So anything you can include in your application that indicates you would have a high probability of working on these projects after the GSoC session is over will be looked upon favorably.