#summary Area Coverage Model (Cover 360)
#sidebar TableOfContents

=Summary=

*Model        : Cover 360

*Source Code  : http://cscs-repast-demos.googlecode.com/svn/mudit/Area%20Coverage/

*Platform     : [RepastSReLogo RepastS ReLogo]

*Mentor       : Dr. Eric Tatara

*Author       : [Mudit Mudit Raj Gupta]


= Introduction =


The model describes the area coverage pattern of a group of Agent, initially kept in a given geometry. The model is useful in studying the spread, the agent density at different radii and comparing the spread given different geometries. The model can be further extended and modified according to specific application. 


=Description= 


The guiding algorithm is fairly simple. Each agents, lets call it a "Mote", tries to more in the area where there are less number of motes initially available. This forces the overall colony of mots to expant and thus covering a given area. 

The initial position of motes lie inside a regular figure/geometry. The dimensions of which can be entered by the user. The initial geomwtries which come with the model are - 

1. Circle

2. Square

3. Hexagon

4. Line

All the Mote positions are random values generated within the boundary of the selected geometries. The code had embedded comments to aptly explain the formation of these initial geometries and random position generation. The following page in the Description Section details about the initial geometry formation.

The model also comes with a check box for automatically filling the motes in the selected geometry. 

In this mode maximum number of motes that can be accommodated in a given geometry are kept. This mode is useful when overlap between agents is not favored. 

The number of steps the motes take at a given clock tick can also be changed by the user. The user can also select how many motes he/she wants in a simulation.

The data sets are generated by the model which can be transferred to a spreadsheet and analyzed. The data is analyzed in the model and few plots are added that are useful for comparative and time based study.

==Initial Geometry=

The model generates four initial geometries as mentioned above. The initial geometry helps in selecting a way for robot deployment. Depending on the selected geometries the area coverage with respect to  time changes. The difference can be observed in the plots and is prominent in the initial stages. After a point of time the area coverages reaches a fixed value for all geometries. The method used for creating geometries is quite simple and is based on basic coordinate geometry. 

According to this method, a random number is generated that lies on the principle axis of the figure. All figures are made at Origin (0,0) and x - axis is the principal axis. The y-axis limit is the y - coordinate that lie in the area below the plot of the equation of the figure. A very common principle of Coordinate geometry guides this (Equation 1)

f(x,y)<0 , for points inside a 2-Dimensional figure on the x-y plane
f(x,y)>0 , for points outside a 2-Dimensional figure on the x-y plane 
f(x,y)=0 , for points on a 2-Dimensional figure on the x-y plane
 
Given, f(x,y) is the equation of the figure and x, y are the respective x and y coordinates.

==User Panel==


*Push Buttons (that rebounds) for setting up the motes and for making them move for one clock tick. 

*Toggle Button to run simulation in a loop till the button is toggled again.

*User can choose the initial geometry form Circle, Hexagon and Square.

*User can select "Number of Motes", "Step Size" and "Initial Side  Length/Radius"  

*User can check "Automatically Fill Initial Geometry" to automatically fill the selected geometry with maximum number of number of motes.

==Data Sets==

==Outputters==

==Plots==

==External Plugin==

=Applications=

It can be used in swarm robotics application for studying optimum number of agents for a given area coverage in a given time frame. It can also be used for calculating robot density at a given time in a given radius. It will also be useful for social simulation. Each "Mote" or agent will decide its' movement on a local basis so no global communication between the robots is required and they can move and cover the area based on their neighbors.
 
=Extending the Model=

==Adding Initial Geometry==

The model can be extended to give mote density of different area(shapes) and even the user can add an irregular geometry 
or some other geometry according to project specific requirements.

==More Robot Specific==

The properties such as Battery Level and Power Loss in transmission can be added to the properties to make a rough estimate of the power source and energy dissipation.

=Bugs=

=References=

* http://ccl.northwestern.edu/netlogo/models/RandomWalk360/

* http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Swarm_robotics

* http://www.swarmrobotic.com/