#summary Mudit's Introduction and Work

=*General Information*=
 

-University: Birla Institute of Technology and Science – Pilani (http://www.bits-pilani.ac.in/) 

-Campus: Goa Campus (http://www.bits-goa.ac.in/) 

-Mentor: Dr. Eric Tatara
 

-Time Zone: +5:30 GMT (Indian Standard Time (IST))

-E-Mail: mudit.raaj.gupta@gmail.com, f2008585@bits-goa.ac.in 

-Skype: mudit.raaj.gupta
 

-Gmail: mudit.raaj.gupta 


=*Introduction*=

 
I am a 6th semester student on Birla Institute of Technology and Science – Pilani studying at Goa Campus, I am simultaneously working for my Master’s degree in Chemistry and Bachelor’s degree in Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering. 

I am interested in swarm robotics and embedded systems. A related field that interests me is Claytronics. It is about self-assembly of many modular robots to create synthetic reality. My recent work is centered on a new Wireless Sensor Network Platform and Mobile WSN. 

I will be making “Demo” models on the software as a part of my GSoC 2011 project. I am looking forward to learn the basics of design and simulation of complex systems and agent based complex systems as they are an integral part of mobile WSN and Swarm Robotics. 


=*Models*=


==*Ants*==

*Description*

Each Ant is guided by a set of simple rules. They keep on wandering in the environment in search of food or a chemical released by a food carrying Ant. If they bump into food they start taking it back to their colony (In the process releasing a chemical). If other ant come across the same chemical it follows the same. Thus the food is transfered to the ant colony.

*Application*

Such a behavior is observed in many social frameworks. It is very useful in task completion in swarm of robots. The same principle is used in data routing. 
    

http://ccl.northwestern.edu/netlogo/models/Ants


==*Guiding Bots*==

*Description*

The simulation will start with some daughter agents in an unknown area. The guiding agents will move around the area and transfer information to the daughter agents and once the daughter agents receive the information they move to cover the given area by moving in their Moore's Neighborhood that is less populated.    

*Application*

It is a simulation of a strategy that is used in Localization of Swarm of Robots or Mobile Wireless Sensor Networks. Large number of daughter robots with low-cost instruments to record local positions are left in an unknow area and few robots with high precision Global positioning Instruments are left there (guiding robots). Depending of the value of received signal strength indication (RSSI) the global position is transfered to the daughter robots (when guiding robots come near them) and they are also aware of the same and can navigate in the area.


==*Cover 360*==

*Description*

The simulation will start with some "motes" kept at the center and every clock tick they try to spread out. It will be guided by a random walk algorithm. 

*Application*

It can be used in swarm robotics application for studying optimum number of agents for a given area coverage in a given time frame. It will also be useful for social simulation. Each "Mote" or agent will decide its' movement on a local basis so no global communication between the robots is required and they can move and cover the area based on their neighbors. 

http://ccl.northwestern.edu/netlogo/models/RandomWalk360/


==*Preferential Linking*==

*Description*

At each step, a new node is added. A new node picks an existing node to connect to randomly, but with some bias. More specifically, a node's chance of being selected is directly proportional to the number of connections it already has, or its "degree." This is the mechanism which is called "preferential attachment."

*Application*

In some networks, a few "hubs" have lots of connections, while everybody else only has a few. This model shows one way such networks can arise.

Such networks can be found in a surprisingly large range of real world situations, ranging from the connections between websites to the collaborations between actors.

This model generates these networks by a process of "preferential attachment", in which new network members prefer to make a connection to the more popular existing members

http://ccl.northwestern.edu/netlogo/models/PreferentialAttachment