#summary Richard's project and task description
#labels Phase-Implementation

= General Information =

== Introduction ==

My name is Richard Oliver Legendi, I'm in my second year at Eötvös Loránd University as a PhD student, at the Dept. of Programming Languages and Compilers. I've participated in the development of some other ABM tools (like [http://mass.aitia.ai/ MASS], [http://mass.aitia.ai/fables/ Fables], and [http://gridabm.sourceforge.net/ GridABM]).

It is a great pleasure to be on board and to be able to participate in the project.

I would like to create simple models and tutorials about how to link Repast with other commonly used tools (like [http://www.r-project.org/ R], [http://www.mathworks.com Matlab], [http://www.gnu.org/software/octave/ Octave] and [http://www.maplesoft.com/products/maple/ Maple]), I believe this may help modelers and make [http://repast.sourceforge.net/ Repast S] a more widely used tool.

 * Mentor: TODO
 * Location: Budapest, Hungary
 * Time Zone: GMT+01:00
 * University: 
   * [http://www.elte.hu/en Eötvös Loránd University]
   * [http://www.inf.elte.hu/english Faculty of Informatics]
   * [http://plcportal.inf.elte.hu/en Dept. of Programming Languages and Compilers]

== Contact ==
 * E-mail: [mailto:richard.legendi@gmail.com]
 * Google: richard.legendi
 * Skype: rlegendi
 * IRC: rlegendi
 * Web: http://people.inf.elte.hu/legendi/

= Planned Models =
You can find the descriptions of the models I plan to create during the summer.

== Implementation of the !StupidModel ==

I am sure the [http://condor.depaul.edu/slytinen/abm/StupidModelFormulation.pdf StupidModel] (1) considered a relevant learning /comparison tool for agent-based modelling. In the last half-a-year I saw it appearing several places, like in the tutorial of gama-platform (2), and in a JASSS publication (3) with a Python API. I've also used it for comparing platforms in one of my publications with different software metrics.

There was a [http://ccl.northwestern.edu/netlogo/ NetLogo] implementation from the beginning, and as I see it is accessible for [http://www.cs.gmu.edu/~eclab/projects/mason/ Mason] (4). It seems I'm a bit drop behind with [http://metaabm.org/ MetaABM], however, I made a bit of search and saw it is also accessible for this platform (5).

I believe it would worth implementing this tool, and improve the comparability with other platforms.
 
== Using External Tools with Repast S ==

I would like to create simple models and tutorials about how to link Repast with other commonly used tools (like R for statistics, Matlab for learning, Octave for some differential equations, and so on).

I believe such demo models and detailed descriptions may help modelers and make [http://repast.sourceforge.net/ Repast S] a more widely used tool.

=== Tools ===
I would like to create several smaller models, link them with some of the following tools and write detailed tutorials how to use them.

 * Matlab/Maple/Octave
 * ORA
 * R
 * Spreadsheets
 * JUNG
 * Terracotta
 * Weka
 * Pajek

=== Models ===
I am thinking of smaller models, because i) they could be better for tutorial and demo reasons, and ii) the emphasis is on how to use external tools with Repast S, not on the models. For this reason I thought to implement simple known models, like the following ones.

==== Population Dynamics ====
A simple population dynamics model, like Lotka–Volterra (6) would be good to use with any of the mathematical tools (Matlab, Maple, Octave). 

They can handle and approximate the solutions of the differential equation systems without any problem (i.e. we don't have to deal with implementing a method like Runge-Kutta).

= References =

 # [http://condor.depaul.edu/slytinen/abm/StupidModelFormulation.pdf]
 # [http://code.google.com/p/gama-platform/wiki/Stupid_Tutorial_Model1]
 # [http://jasss.soc.surrey.ac.uk/14/2/5.html]
 # [http://condor.depaul.edu/slytinen/abm/]
 # [http://metaabm.org/docs/designing_model.html]
 # Lotka, A.J., "Contribution to the Theory of Periodic Reaction", J. Phys. Chem., 14 (3), pp 271–274 (1910)
 # W. Brian Arthur. "Inductive Reasoning and Bounded Rationality", The American Economic Review, v84n2, p406-411 (1994)
 # Fogel, D.B.; Chellapilla, K.; Angeline, P.J., "Inductive reasoning and bounded rationality reconsidered", IEEE Transactions on Evolutionary Computation, v3n2, p142-146 (1999)