#summary StupidModel Demo project.

= Introduction =
This tutorial is based on the article _[http://condor.depaul.edu/slytinen/abm/StupidModelFormulation.pdf StupidModel and Extensions: A template and teaching tool for agent-based modeling platforms]_ by Steven F. Railsback, Steven L. Lytinen and Stephen K. Jackson.

I am sure the !StupidModel considered a relevant learning /comparison tool for agent-based modelling. Several reference implementations may be found on [http://condor.depaul.edu/slytinen/abm/ Steven L. Lytinen's site]

= Model List =
Each section of the following tutorial first describes the !StupidModel, a set of 16 simple template models designed as examples for learning how to use agent-based modeling platforms, then contains detailed notes on the implementation in Repast Simphony. Version 1 is the basic !StupidModel, which is extremely simple. As the first exercise in a class for nonprogrammers, Version 1 can be implemented in 2-3 hours. The subsequent versions incrementally add features that are commonly used in real models. These features include model elements such as interaction among individuals and their environment, stopping rules, alternative orders in which individuals execute their actions, mortality and reproduction, file input for habitat variables, and multiple kinds of agents. Some versions simply add software tools for observing the model: probes, graphs, and file output.

The documentation for each version states its purpose-what tool or technique is illustrated by the version, describes its formulation, and provides notes on how the changes were implemented in the example software.

The complete !StupidModel list:

 # Basic !StupidModel 
 # Bug Growth 
 # Habitat Cells and Resource 
 # Cell and Bug Probes 
 # Parameters and Parameter Displays
 # Histogram Output
 # Stopping the Model 
 # File Output 
 # Randomized Agent Actions 
 # Sorted Agent Actions 
 # Optimal Movement 
 # Bug Mortality and Reproduction 
 # Population Abundance Graph
 # Random Normal Initial Size 
 # Habitat Data from File Input 
 # Predators

== Basic !StupidModel ==

=== Purpose ===
This is the basic !StupidModel, an extremely simple individual-based model used as a starting point for learning Repast (or other IBM platforms).

=== Formulation ===
 * The space is a two-dimensional grid of dimensions 100 x 100. The space is toroidal, meaning that if bugs move off one edge of the grid they appear on the opposite edge.
 * 100 bug agents are created. They have one behavior: moving to a randomly chosen grid location within +/- 4 cells of their current location, in both the X and Y directions. If there already is a bug at the location (including the moving bug itself - bugs are not allowed to stay at their current location unless none of the neighborhood cells are vacant), then another new location is chosen. This action is executed once per time step.
 * The bugs are displayed on the space. Bugs are drawn as red circles. The display is updated at the end of each time step.
 * Instead of specifying which random number generation algorithm to use, the default generator for each platform is used.

=== Implementation Notes ===

=== Complete Model ===

 * The [http://to.do complete source code] of the first model is accessible from the proper SVN branch directly.

= References =
 # Steven F. Railsback, Steven L. Lytinen and Stephen K. Jackson: _'!StupidModel and Extensions: A template and teaching tool for agent-based modeling platforms'_, (December 20, 2005) http://condor.depaul.edu/~slytinen/abm/StupidModelFormulation.pdf
 # Isaac, Alan G.: _'The ABM Template Models: A Reformulation with Reference Implementations'_ Journal of Artificial Societies and Social Simulation 14 (2) 5, (2011) http://jasss.soc.surrey.ac.uk/14/2/5.html.